Add Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint docs under managed inputs (#644)
elastic/opentelemetry: docs/reference/managed-inputs/elasticsearch-bulk.md

---
navigation_title: "Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint"
description: "Ingest data from Elasticsearch _bulk shippers such as Beats, Elastic Agent, and Logstash through the Elastic Cloud Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint."
applies_to:
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
  deployment:
    ech: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: observability
  - id: security
---

# Ingest data with the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [elasticsearch-bulk]

The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint ingests data sent in the [{{es}} `_bulk` API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) format. It accepts `_bulk` traffic natively, so shippers that already write to {{es}} can send data through [managed inputs](index.md) by pointing their existing {{es}} output at the endpoint. It's a dedicated managed input exposed on the `/_es` path of the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md) and the [Managed Prometheus Remote Write endpoint](prometheus-remote-write.md).

> The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. The endpoint currently supports only log data streams. Bulk actions must use the `create` action — the only write action data streams support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. The endpoint accepts only log data. Bulk actions must use the `create` action.
```

We don't have plans for more

Reviewer 2: > The endpoint accepts only log data.

Hello @constanca-m - are we rejecting bulk requests which target data streams not starting with `logs*`?
What about clients which rely on an ingest pipeline to reroute to the correct data stream?
How are we going to guarantee this?

We declare this ES Bulk endpoint GA, we claim it can be used as drop in replacement for the ES direct output, but it comes out with so many caveats and conditions that I doubt we can even investigate if something goes wrong.

Just as an example, Elastic Agent with a bunch of integrations (system, redis) will ship both logs and metrics.
If I configure the output of EA to write to this new endpoint, what happens to the metrics?

I think this is more a product question than technical @perk

Reviewer: MOTel does not validate destination index names at any point. It does not decide whether `logs-*`, `metrics-*`, or `traces-*` is semantically correct for a document. **Anything outside those data stream families is outside the managed-input contract.**

For the `_bulk` endpoint, what we enforce today is narrower:

- The `_bulk` receiver accepts only the `create` action.
- It requires an `_index` or path target.
- It converts every accepted bulk document into an OTel log record.
- It stores the requested `_index` as `elasticsearch.index`.
- The ingest chart wires `elasticsearch_bulk` only into `logs/esbulk`, so it always enters the logs path.

So the endpoint is logs-only by contract, but we do not reject non-`logs-*` targets at the receiver. Clients that emit metrics, or rely on ingest pipelines to reroute documents into metrics data streams, are outside the supported behavior for this endpoint.

For Elastic Agent specifically, users should only point log-only bulk traffic at this endpoint. A mixed integrations output that emits both logs and metrics should not be treated as supported.

Reviewer 2: Thanks Constanca - got it. 

From the "user" perspective, this will be for sure overlooked.
From Support side, it will be quite tough to determine "is this use case valid?".

It will be required to go to Managed OTel metrics to see what signals are shipped and by what product.

```ruby
output {
  elasticsearch {
    hosts => ["<managed-_bulk-endpoint>"]
    custom_headers => {
      "Authorization" => "ApiKey <api-key>"
    }
    action => "create"
  }
}
```

{{product.beats}} and {{product.elastic-agent}} configure their {{es}} output the same way: they point the output hosts at `<managed-_bulk-endpoint>` and provide their API key. If your shipper uses the `index`, `update`, or `delete` action, switch to `create` or target a data stream. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations).

To confirm your setup is working, check that your shipper reports successful (`2xx`) responses with no authentication errors, then open **Discover** and verify that new documents are landing in your target data stream.

If documents don't appear, they might have failed during asynchronous indexing. These errors aren't reported in the bulk response, so use [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md) to monitor and triage indexing issues. For more details, refer to [Indexing errors and the failure store](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#failure-store).

:::::

::::::

## How _bulk data appears in {{es}} [data-mapping]

> Each action in a `_bulk` request specifies its target through the `_index` field, so data lands in the data stream or index that your shipper already targets. For example, a shipper writing nginx access logs to `logs-nginx.access-default` continues to land there. If your shipper sets a fallback target in the request path (`/_es/<target>/_bulk`), that target is used for actions that omit `_index`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each action in a `_bulk` request can specify its target through the `_index` field, so data lands in the data stream or index that your shipper already targets. For example, a shipper writing nginx access logs to `logs-nginx.access-default` continues to land there. If your shipper sets a fallback target in the request path (`/_es/<target>/_bulk`), that target is used for actions that omit `_index`.
```

- **Compressed requests are supported.** The endpoint accepts `Content-Encoding: gzip` request bodies.

For shared buffering and delivery behavior across managed inputs, refer to [Buffering and delivery](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#delivery).

## Indexing errors and rate limiting [indexing-errors-and-rate-limiting]

Because indexing happens asynchronously, indexing failures such as mapping conflicts aren't reported in the bulk response, and the endpoint doesn't provide client-side visibility into them. To confirm your data was indexed, verify that documents landed in the destination data stream and use [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md) to monitor indexing issues. For more detail on how indexing errors are handled, refer to [Indexing errors and the failure store](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#failure-store).

> Under load, or when the service can't accept more data, the endpoint can respond with `429 Too Many Requests` or `503 Service Unavailable`. {{es}} output shippers such as {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} retry these responses automatically with backoff, so transient rejections don't lose data as long as your shipper can queue it. For how rate limiting works and how it differs between {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, refer to [Managed inputs rate limiting](rate-limiting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under load, or when the service can't accept more data, the endpoint can respond with `429 Too Many Requests` or `503 Service Unavailable`. Configure your shipper to retry these responses with backoff and to queue data locally during transient rejections. For how rate limiting works and how it differs between {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, refer to [Managed inputs rate limiting](rate-limiting.md).
```

I don't know if we should specify the actual shippers, or just leave it generic

## Limitations [limitations]

The following limitations apply when using the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint:

> - Only `create` actions are supported. Requests that use `index`, `update`, or `delete` actions are rejected with `400 Bad Request`. Data streams support only the `create` write action, and this endpoint currently accepts only log data streams. For {{product.logstash}}, the `elasticsearch` output must use `action => "create"`. Features that depend on other actions, such as scripted upserts, aren't supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only `create` actions are supported. Requests that use `index`, `update`, or `delete` actions are rejected with `400 Bad Request`. This endpoint accepts only log data. For {{product.logstash}}, the `elasticsearch` output must use `action => "create"`. Features that depend on other actions, such as scripted upserts, aren't supported.
```

We don't have plans for more than logs

- Duplicate detection isn't applied. The endpoint doesn't deduplicate documents by `_id`, so client retries can produce duplicate documents.
- No client-side visibility into indexing outcomes. Because batches are accepted asynchronously, the bulk response confirms only that data was enqueued, not indexed. Shippers don't receive per-document indexing errors, such as mapping conflicts, in their responses, so monitor indexing separately in {{kib}} with [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md).

> - Index templates, index lifecycle management (ILM) policies, and {{kib}} assets can't be installed through the endpoint, which serves only the root (`/`), license (`/_es/_license`), and `_bulk` paths. {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} setup steps that create index templates or load dashboards must run against {{es}} and {{kib}} directly before you send data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Index templates, index lifecycle management (ILM) policies, and {{kib}} assets can't be installed through the endpoint, which serves only the root (`/_es`), license (`/_es/_license`), and `_bulk` paths (`/_es/_bulk` and `/_es/<target>/_bulk`). {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} setup steps that create index templates or load dashboards must run against {{es}} and {{kib}} directly before you send data.
```

  - id: security
---

# Ingest data with the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [elasticsearch-bulk]

The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint ingests data sent in the [{{es}} `_bulk` API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) format. It accepts `_bulk` traffic natively, so shippers that already write to {{es}} can send data through [managed inputs](index.md) by pointing their existing {{es}} output at the endpoint. It's a dedicated managed input exposed on the `/_es` path of the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md) and the [Managed Prometheus Remote Write endpoint](prometheus-remote-write.md).

The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. Documents must use the `create` action. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations) for additional constraints.

## When to use the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [when-to-use]

Use the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint to bring data shippers that rely on the {{es}} `_bulk` API into managed ingestion, including:

> 

Reviewer 2: Beats and Logstash also require the installation of some assets (index templates) on ES side and some other assets on Kibana side (e.g. dashboards for a module).

For the ES assets, the documentation would need to be updated to warn about this as the Managed Bulk endpoint will not allow to install index templates as it only supports `/`, the license API and the Bulk API.

Author: I added a prerequisite + a note in the limitations section in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/7aa917935d0efb5e845f42ddfa7e4e63f7e12c65 - what do you think?

- {{product.beats}}
- {{product.elastic-agent}}

> - {{product.logstash}}

Reviewer 2: I think Logstash is compatible only when using the "normal" ES output.
If someone uses scripted upserts, it might fail?

Author: Added a clarification in the limitations section in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/7aa917935d0efb5e845f42ddfa7e4e63f7e12c65 - what do you think?

- Any other shipper that sends data using the {{es}} `_bulk` API.

Compared to sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}, the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint provides:

- A single ingest endpoint and API key shared with the other [managed inputs](index.md).

> - Durable buffering, back-pressure, and automatic retries before data reaches {{es}}.

Reviewer 2: - How much time a document stays in the buffer?
- How many retries are done?
- Can the users have high level metrics about this or they need to ask via support what is going on? E.g. "Why I see data after 5 minutes?"

Author: Yes, actually I also wanted to ask some questions—

@constanca-m can you help with answers to Luca’s questions as well as the following:

- Is there a maximum buffer duration after which data is dropped?
- What does the client receive if enqueue fails, and is it always a whole-batch rejection?
- If all retries are exhausted, is the data dropped, sent to the failure store, or returned as an error?

Reviewer: > Is there a maximum buffer duration after which data is dropped?

The default per-deployment topics are configured with `retention_duration: 12h`, so 12 hours is the source-backed upper bound for how long accepted data can remain in the managed-ingestion buffer before Kafka retention becomes the limit. I would not include this in this documentation. This is shared among ALL endpoints of managed OTLP, and can be overwritten (only by us), so it would require a lot of maintenance to keep this up to date. Can we keep this high level here?

> What does the client receive if enqueue fails, and is it always a whole-batch rejection?

If the request is valid but the service cannot enqueue it, the client gets a whole request error, not per-document item results. The source returns `503 Service Unavailable` with an Elasticsearch-style error body using type `unavailable` and status `503`. The batch is atomic: either the whole batch is accepted into the durable buffer and the client gets a success response with item statuses, or the request fails without reporting partial per-document success.

Malformed requests, unsupported actions, or missing targets are also whole-request failures, but those return `400 Bad Request` instead of `503`.

> If all retries are exhausted, is the data dropped, sent to the failure store, or returned as an error?

We do not handle failure store on managed OTLP. We get an error.

Reviewer: > How much time a document stays in the buffer?

Let's not commit to numbers, let's keep it high level. It's the same answer as of previous question `Is there a maximum buffer duration after which data is dropped?`.

> How many retries are done?

We don't have a retry count, this seems like an internal concern, I don't see why a user would need to know this. We have certain retry mechanisms for some components of the architecture, we don't have a single number.

> Can the users have high level metrics about this or they need to ask via support what is going on? E.g. "Why I see data after 5 minutes?"

I don't have an answer for this, it is a product concern. I agree we should have this, but as of today, we don't

Reviewer 2: > Can we keep this high level here?

++ We do not even need to tell it's backed by kafka. Just that the retention is 12h (and this is shared across all Managed Ingest going through Managed OTel Collector.

> We do not handle failure store on managed OTLP. We get an error.

If the destination data streams of the data have failure store enabled and there's an error in the mappings or similar, the data is stored there.

But in case the destination cluster pushes back with 503, 429, etc... What is the queue behavior?
Does it keep retrying N times and then drops the data? Keeps retrying for 12 hours?
Can we have a spec of what happens to the data on each situation?

Reviewer: This is quite complex... I don't think we should address this in this PR.

But answering the questions:

There are two different buffers here, so we should not describe this as “retrying for 12h”.

Accepted data is first buffered in Kafka. The per-deployment managed-ingest topics, including `motel.events.logs.*`, are configured with `retention_duration: 12h`, and the provisioner applies that as Kafka `retention.ms`. So 12h is the source-backed upper bound for data that is still waiting in Kafka.

After the index collector consumes from Kafka, Elasticsearch delivery uses the index collector’s Elasticsearch exporter queue. That queue is async (`wait_for_result: false`) and in-memory, with `block_on_overflow: true`. It is not a 12h retry loop.

For retries to Elasticsearch:
- Default exporter behavior retries only `429`, with default `MaxDocumentRetries = 2`.
- ECH overrides this to `max_retries: 3` for `401` and `429`. (We have issues on retries here btw: https://github.com/elastic/hosted-otel-collector/issues/2692)
- `503` is not configured as retryable in the hosted chart, so source does not support saying we retry 503.

If retries are exhausted, the collector does not send the data to failure store itself. Failure store is an Elasticsearch data stream behavior: if Elasticsearch reports failure store usage in the bulk response, the exporter records that in internal metrics. Otherwise the exporter logs/records the failed document outcome internally.

Reviewer 3: We track the failure-store -like feature for Streams under:
* https://github.com/elastic/obs-execution/issues/93

tl;dr there should be a failure store, the default most probably will be local ES instance. It is not a part of our v1 though, it will come later.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @constanca-m  for the clear answer.
I think for the scope of the doc, we might just mention the data can be queued up to 12h.
For the retries, let's omit this even those we might have users asking for such details.

For the failure store, as it's a feature on ES side which might not be enabled on all destination data streams, it means that we can actually lead to data loss without the user knowing about it.

@perk may I ask to review this example?
I am a customer who made a mistake in the index template of `metrics-.` data stream.
I have Elastic Agent and it is configured to use the Managed ES Bulk endpoint instead of Elasticsearch direct connection.

1. EA produces data which will land on `metrics-...`
2. The data reaches Managed ES Bulk endpoint
3. Managed ES Bulk endpoint acknowledges the bulk as soon as internally it's queued.
4. EA "the data is acknowledged by ES and there was no error", drop the items from its memory queue.
5. On Managed OTel collector the bulk gets processed and reaches the indexing stage
6. At indexing, the bulk fails because of a mapping conflict. As FS is disabled by default on `metrics-...`, the data is lost
7. The client stats on EA tell everything is good
8. On ES we have a hole in the data and no metric/warning to tell so to the user.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/commit/123f3ad2b722e7b20c552a5409230e65f0dda801:

- Buffering duration: kept high-level rather than stating 12h. Let me know if we should still specify this number.
- Data loss example: I added a warning in the shared failure-handling page that indexing failures are silently dropped when the destination data stream doesn't have the failure store enabled, and the shipper still reports success.
- Scope: I updated the _bulk endpoint doc to mention this endpoint currently supports only log data streams.

:::::

::::::

## How _bulk data appears in {{es}} [data-mapping]

Each action in a `_bulk` request specifies its target through the `_index` field, so data lands in the data stream or index that your shipper already targets. For example, a shipper writing nginx access logs to `logs-nginx.access-default` continues to land there. If your shipper sets a fallback target in the request path (`/_es/<target>/_bulk`), that target is used for actions that omit `_index`.

## Delivery behavior [delivery-behavior]

The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint emulates the {{es}} `_bulk` API, but because it ingests through managed inputs, it behaves differently from indexing directly into {{es}}. Keep the following in mind:

- **Batches are atomic.** The endpoint either durably enqueues the entire batch and returns success, or rejects the entire batch. There's no per-document partial success or failure.

> - **A success response means the data is durably enqueued, not indexed.** A successful response returns an {{es}}-compatible body in which each item reports a `201` status. This confirms managed inputs durably accepted the document, not that {{es}} has indexed it. Errors that occur later during indexing, such as mapping conflicts, happen asynchronously and aren't reported in the bulk response.

Reviewer 2: As Managed ES Bulk endpoint has no monitoring view for the user, how they can realize what is going on? There's no observability of errors/failures for them as the client stats are muted (due to the fact the bulk response is not reporting partial errors).

What is the solution to this gap? @nimarezainia / @perk

Reviewer: Just to confirm that a successful bulk response only means the data was accepted for managed ingestion, not that it was indexed. Users need to check whether data arrived in the target data stream. I agree that this feels like a product gap on our side

Reviewer 2: Thanks @constanca-m 

Indeed users when switching to the managed ES endpoint would completely lose the ability to get the client-side stats of the success/failure of the bulks they sent out, as the delivery "contract" changes.

And we even cover this gap replying "it's covered by the failure store" as not all the backing data streams will have failure store enabled.

PMs imho should acknowledge this gap and track this as a limitation to solve - and probably report this in the limitations.

Reviewer 3: Hey Luca, good point - the observability for Streams (and Managed Inputs as part of it) is planned for the Streams v2 milestone:
* https://github.com/elastic/ingest-dev/issues/8731

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/commit/123f3ad2b722e7b20c552a5409230e65f0dda801

---
navigation_title: "Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint"
description: "Ingest data from Elasticsearch _bulk shippers such as Beats, Elastic Agent, and Logstash through the Elastic Cloud Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint."
applies_to:
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
  deployment:
    ech: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: observability
  - id: security
---

# Ingest data with the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [elasticsearch-bulk]

The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint ingests data sent in the [{{es}} `_bulk` API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) format. It accepts `_bulk` traffic natively, so shippers that already write to {{es}} can send data through [managed inputs](index.md) by pointing their existing {{es}} output at the endpoint. It's a dedicated managed input exposed on the `/_es` path of the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md) and the [Managed Prometheus Remote Write endpoint](prometheus-remote-write.md).

> The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. Documents must use the `create` action. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations) for additional constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. Bulk actions must use the `create` action.
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/76394e6ad7e09feff7dcfd118cdde7e030707e0a.

- {{product.beats}}
- {{product.elastic-agent}}
- {{product.logstash}}
- Any other shipper that sends data using the {{es}} `_bulk` API.

Compared to sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}, the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint provides:

- A single ingest endpoint and API key shared with the other [managed inputs](index.md).
- Durable buffering, back-pressure, and automatic retries before data reaches {{es}}.
- A low-friction path for existing {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} deployments to adopt managed ingestion without re-architecting their pipelines.

:::{note}
On {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, prefer the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint over sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}. Direct ingest bypasses managed inputs, so it has no durable buffering or managed processing before data reaches {{es}}, and it authenticates with {{es}} credentials or an API key with index privileges instead of a managed inputs API key.
:::

## Prerequisites [prerequisites]

- An {{serverless-full}} Observability or Security project, or an {{ech}} deployment on {{stack}} version 9.0 or later.

> - A `_bulk`-compatible shipper, such as {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, {{product.logstash}}, or another shipper with an {{es}} output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `_bulk`-compatible shipper that can send `create` actions, such as {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, {{product.logstash}}, or another shipper with an {{es}} output.
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/76394e6ad7e09feff7dcfd118cdde7e030707e0a.

- A managed inputs API key with the `event:write` privilege for the `apm` application. Refer to [Authentication](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#authentication) for the required key format and generation steps.
- Any {{es}} index templates and {{kib}} assets your shipper relies on, installed beforehand. The endpoint doesn't install them for you. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations).

## Set up the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [set-up]

> The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint uses the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md), with the `/_es` path appended, and looks similar to `https://<project>.ingest.<region>.<csp>.elastic.cloud/_es`.

Reviewer: Is this documentation only for serverless?

Because `https://<project>.ingest.<region>.<csp>.elastic.cloud/_es` is only the host format for serverless projects.

We will have the endpoint exposed on the UI like mentioned in https://github.com/elastic/cloud-ui/issues/3474. I think it is worth syncing with them because that makes a better user experience and it requires no changes from the customer

Author: Ah, good catch, the doc covers ECH as well. I’ll update this.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/changes/0c9deca2b2794e2d829c31260b618e22626acb29

::::::{stepper}

:::::{step} Find your endpoint

To find your Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint:

::::{applies-switch}
:::{applies-item} serverless:
1. Log in to the {{ecloud}} Console.
2. Find your project and select **Manage**.

> 3. In the **Application endpoints, cluster and component IDs** section, select **{{es}}**, then copy the **_bulk endpoint** value. It looks similar to `https://<project>.ingest.<region>.<csp>.elastic.cloud/_es`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Application endpoints, cluster and component IDs** section, select **{{es}}**, then copy the **_bulk endpoint** value.
```

I wouldn't include the host form for either ECH or serverless. Can we just add an image of the UI?

Author: Ok, I’ll remove these. Because the UI changes a lot, we try not to add screenshots that do not add too much value, for maintainability. In this case, we’d not add a screenshot.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/76394e6ad7e09feff7dcfd118cdde7e030707e0a.

---
navigation_title: "Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint"
description: "Ingest data from Elasticsearch _bulk shippers such as Beats, Elastic Agent, and Logstash through the Elastic Cloud Managed Elasticsearch _bulk endpoint."
applies_to:
  serverless:
    observability: ga
    security: ga
  deployment:
    ech: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: observability
  - id: security
---

> # Ingest data with the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [elasticsearch-bulk]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Ingest data with the Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint [elasticsearch-bulk]
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

> The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint ingests data sent in the [{{es}} `_bulk` API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) format. It accepts `_bulk` traffic natively, so shippers that already write to {{es}} can send data through [managed inputs](index.md) by pointing their existing {{es}} output at the endpoint. It's a dedicated managed input exposed on the `/_es` path of the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md) and the [Managed Prometheus Remote Write endpoint](prometheus-remote-write.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint ingests data sent in the [{{es}} `_bulk` API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) format. It accepts `_bulk` traffic natively, so shippers that already write to {{es}} can send data through [managed inputs](index.md) by pointing their existing {{es}} output at the endpoint. It's a dedicated managed input exposed on the `/_es` path of the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md) and the [Managed Prometheus Remote Write endpoint](prometheus-remote-write.md).
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

> The endpoint is {{es}}-compatible: it emulates a subset of the `_bulk` API, so most shippers need only a new endpoint and credentials to start sending data. The managed input then durably buffers the data and routes it into {{es}}. Bulk actions must use the `create` action. The endpoint currently supports log data streams.

Reviewer 4: The last two items in this paragraph seem a bit out of place. If they're connected to the Managed ES `bulk` endpoint, I'd add some more context to show how.

Author: Reworded in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/cd12d402245791b93de6d5468b8f0030841e9623

> ## When to use the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [when-to-use]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## When to use the Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint [when-to-use]
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

> Use the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint to bring data shippers that rely on the {{es}} `_bulk` API into managed ingestion, including:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint to bring data shippers that rely on the {{es}} `_bulk` API into managed ingestion, including:
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

- {{product.beats}}
- {{product.elastic-agent}}
- {{product.logstash}}
- Any other shipper that sends data using the {{es}} `_bulk` API.

Compared to sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}, the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint provides:

- A single ingest endpoint and API key shared with the other [managed inputs](index.md).
- Durable buffering, back-pressure, and automatic retries before data reaches {{es}}.
- A low-friction path for existing {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} deployments to adopt managed ingestion without re-architecting their pipelines.

:::{note}

> On {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, prefer the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint over sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}. Direct ingest bypasses managed inputs, so it has no durable buffering or managed processing before data reaches {{es}}, and it authenticates with {{es}} credentials or an API key with index privileges instead of a managed inputs API key.

Reviewer 4: This note and everything under [line 32](https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/changes#diff-6cf5cef03d17d84781ee0b2d8c2e3effc70e2d510b6ff13b6a3d58873b1551cfR32) covers why folk should use the new Managed ES `_bulk` endpoint. Consider moving this content to a dedicated section (e.g., "Benefits of using the Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint"). That'd allow the improvements really stand out and field folks can link to the content directly, if needed.

```suggestion
On {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, use the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint over sending `_bulk` requests directly to {{es}}. Direct ingest bypasses managed inputs, so it has no durable buffering or managed processing before data reaches {{es}}, and it authenticates with {{es}} credentials or an API key with index privileges instead of a managed inputs API key.
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/cd12d402245791b93de6d5468b8f0030841e9623

:::

## Prerequisites [prerequisites]

- An {{serverless-full}} Observability or Security project, or an {{ech}} deployment on {{stack}} version 9.0 or later.
- A `_bulk`-compatible shipper that can send `create` actions, such as {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, {{product.logstash}}, or another shipper with an {{es}} output.
- A managed inputs API key with the `event:write` privilege for the `apm` application. Refer to [Authentication](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#authentication) for the required key format and generation steps.
- Any {{es}} index templates and {{kib}} assets your shipper relies on, installed beforehand. The endpoint doesn't install them for you. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations).

## Set up the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint [set-up]

> The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint uses the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md), with the `/_es` path appended. Its exact format depends on your deployment type. Copy the exact value from the {{ecloud}} Console, as described in the following steps.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint uses the same ingest host as the [Managed OTLP Endpoint](managed-otlp-endpoint.md), with the `/_es` path appended. Its exact format depends on your deployment type. Copy the exact value from the {{ecloud}} Console, as described in the following steps.
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

::::::{stepper}

:::::{step} Find your endpoint

> To find your Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To find your Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint:
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

> ::::{applies-switch}

Reviewer 4: If you wanted to simplify lines 59-71, you could do something like: 

1. Log in to the {{ecloud}} Console, then do one of the following:
   - **{{serverless-short}}**: Find your deployment in **Hosted deployments** and select **Manage**.
   - **{{stack}}**: Find your deployment in **Hosted deployments** and select **Manage**.
2. In the **Application endpoints, cluster and component IDs** section, select **{{es}}**, then copy the **_bulk endpoint** value.

Author: Yeah, I agree — the applies-switch is an overkill here. I realize that now 😅

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/cd12d402245791b93de6d5468b8f0030841e9623 (kept it as a separate step)

:::{applies-item} serverless:
1. Log in to the {{ecloud}} Console.
2. Find your project and select **Manage**.
3. In the **Application endpoints, cluster and component IDs** section, select **{{es}}**, then copy the **_bulk endpoint** value.
:::

:::{applies-item} ech:
1. Log in to the {{ecloud}} Console.
2. Find your deployment in **Hosted deployments** and select **Manage**.
3. In the **Application endpoints, cluster and component IDs** section, select **{{es}}**, then copy the **_bulk endpoint** value.
:::
::::

This endpoint value is shown as `<managed-_bulk-endpoint>` in the examples that follow. Your shipper appends the `_bulk` path (and any target index path) itself, so requests are sent to `POST <managed-_bulk-endpoint>/_bulk`.

:::::

:::::{step} Authenticate

> The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint uses the same authentication as the other managed inputs. Refer to [Authentication](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#authentication) for the required key format and generation steps. Send the key in each request's `Authorization` header as `ApiKey <api-key>`.

Reviewer 4: Couple of questions/comments here:
- The first sentence provides useful background, but I'm wondering if it'd be even more helpful if it provided guidance on retrieving the API key/the value that users need to plug into the authorization header.
- Is the ref to the authentication docs needed in this step? I thought users need to set up the API key beforehand. 

```suggestion
The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint uses the same authentication as the other managed inputs. Send the key in each request's `Authorization` header as `ApiKey <api-key>`.
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/cd12d402245791b93de6d5468b8f0030841e9623:
- Moving the main info for creating API keys for managed inputs to the shared doc under “Authentication”
- Adding the API key as a prerequisite for using the managed _bulk endpoint
- Keeping the "Authenticate" step in the _bulk doc, rewording it, but still linking to the doc with the detailed steps.

LMK what you think!

Shippers that call `GET /_es` or `GET /_es/_license` at startup can use the same managed inputs API key. You don't need to grant additional privileges for those requests.

> :::{note}

Reviewer 4: Would recommend removing this note if users aren't setting up API keys at this step in the process.

Index-level privilege scoping is not supported for managed inputs. API keys restricted to specific index-level privileges return a `PermissionDenied` error.
:::

:::::

:::::{step} Configure your shipper and send data

To send data, configure your shipper's {{es}} output with the following:

> - **Endpoint**: your Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint value (`<managed-_bulk-endpoint>`), in the host format for your deployment type described in [Set up the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint](#set-up). If your shipper has a separate path or URL-prefix setting, set it to `/_es` instead of including it in the host.

Reviewer 4: Removed part of the first sentence because it links users to the section they're already in. If it needs to be kept, it might be more useful to provide an example or exact guidance instead of linking off.

```suggestion
- **Endpoint**: Use your Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint value (`<managed-_bulk-endpoint>`) using the host format for your deployment type. If your shipper has a separate path or URL-prefix setting, set it to `/_es` instead of including it in the host.
```

> - **Authentication**: your managed inputs API key, sent as the HTTP header `Authorization: ApiKey <api-key>`. Refer to [Authentication](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#authentication) for details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Authentication**: Use your managed inputs API key. Send it as the HTTP header `Authorization: ApiKey <api-key>`, as described in [Authentication](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#authentication).
```

> - **Action**: use `create`. Shippers that write to data streams already use this action.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Action**: Use `create`. Shippers that write to data streams already use this action.
```

The following example configures a {{product.logstash}} `elasticsearch` output. Setting names and the exact way to pass credentials vary by shipper and version, so validate the configuration for your shipper:

```ruby
output {
  elasticsearch {
    hosts => ["<managed-_bulk-endpoint>"]
    custom_headers => {
      "Authorization" => "ApiKey <api-key>"
    }
    action => "create"
  }
}
```

> {{product.beats}} and {{product.elastic-agent}} configure their {{es}} output the same way: point the output hosts at `<managed-_bulk-endpoint>` and provide the managed inputs API key. If your shipper uses the `index`, `update`, or `delete` action, switch to `create` or target a data stream. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations).

Reviewer 4: Just checking if "the" should be "their" here. Idk if there's only **one** managed input API key between beats and Elastic Agent, or if each has their own separate key.

```suggestion
{{product.beats}} and {{product.elastic-agent}} configure their {{es}} output the same way: they point the output hosts at `<managed-_bulk-endpoint>` and provide their managed inputs API key. If your shipper uses the `index`, `update`, or `delete` action, switch to `create` or target a data stream. Refer to [Limitations](#limitations).
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/elastic/opentelemetry/pull/644/commits/cd12d402245791b93de6d5468b8f0030841e9623

To confirm your setup is working, check that your shipper reports successful (`2xx`) responses with no authentication errors, then open **Discover** and verify that new documents are landing in your target data stream.

> A success response means the data was durably enqueued, not yet indexed, so if documents don't appear, they might have failed during asynchronous indexing. These errors aren't reported in the bulk response, so use [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md) to monitor and triage indexing issues. For more details, refer to [Indexing errors and the failure store](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#failure-store).

Reviewer 4: Optional trim, since the second part of the sentence is really the important part.

```suggestion
If documents don't appear, they might have failed during asynchronous indexing. These errors aren't reported in the bulk response, so use [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md) to monitor and triage indexing issues. For more details, refer to [Indexing errors and the failure store](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#failure-store).
```

:::::

::::::

## How _bulk data appears in {{es}} [data-mapping]

Each action in a `_bulk` request specifies its target through the `_index` field, so data lands in the data stream or index that your shipper already targets. For example, a shipper writing nginx access logs to `logs-nginx.access-default` continues to land there. If your shipper sets a fallback target in the request path (`/_es/<target>/_bulk`), that target is used for actions that omit `_index`.

## Delivery behavior [delivery-behavior]

> The Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint emulates the {{es}} `_bulk` API, but because it ingests through managed inputs, it behaves differently from indexing directly into {{es}}. Keep the following in mind:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint emulates the {{es}} `_bulk` API, but because it ingests through managed inputs, it behaves differently from indexing directly into {{es}}. Keep the following in mind:
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.

## Indexing errors and rate limiting [indexing-errors-and-rate-limiting]

Because indexing happens asynchronously, indexing failures such as mapping conflicts aren't reported in the bulk response, and the endpoint doesn't provide client-side visibility into them. To confirm your data was indexed, verify that documents landed in the destination data stream and use [Data Set Quality](docs-content://solutions/observability/data-set-quality-monitoring.md) to monitor indexing issues. For more detail on how indexing errors are handled, refer to [Indexing errors and the failure store](authentication-delivery-and-failure-handling.md#failure-store).

Under load, or when the service can't accept more data, the endpoint can respond with `429 Too Many Requests` or `503 Service Unavailable`. {{es}} output shippers such as {{product.beats}}, {{product.elastic-agent}}, and {{product.logstash}} retry these responses automatically with backoff, so transient rejections don't lose data as long as your shipper can queue it. For how rate limiting works and how it differs between {{serverless-full}} and {{ech}}, refer to [Managed inputs rate limiting](rate-limiting.md).

## Limitations [limitations]

> The following limitations apply when using the Managed {{es}} _bulk endpoint:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following limitations apply when using the Managed {{es}} `_bulk` endpoint:
```

Reviewer 4: Resolving - uses the same styling as the UI.
